CSC328: Network Programming 
Dr. L. Frye
Fall 2015
Client/Server Program – Download Server

In this assignment you will develop a network application. The server will be a concurrent, connection-oriented download server. The client will be a download client to test the server.

The supported messages of this download protocol are:
• HELLO – sent by server upon client connection
• BYE – sent by client on disconnect
• DIR – directory listing on the server
• CD – change directory on the server
• DOWNLOAD – client downloads requested file

The download protocol specifications are:

• When client connects, the server will send a “HELLO” message.

• When client disconnects from server, client sends a “BYE” message to the server.

• Directory listing
  o Client will send “DIR” command to server
  o Server will respond with the filenames of each file in the current directory
  o Decision: How will the server indicate the end of the directory listing?

• Change directory on server
  o Client will send “CD” command, followed by a directory (absolute or relative)
  o Server will change to that directory
  o Server must handle errors, such as “permission denied”
  o Server will send response to client
  o Decision: What will server response be for successful and unsuccessful cd commands?

• Download a file (send from server to client)
  o Client will send “DOWNLOAD” command to server, followed by a filename
  o Server will respond with one of the following:
        “READY” if file exists
        "File Not Found” if file doesn’t exist
  o Client will respond with one of the following:
      “READY” if file doesn’t exist or it exists and should be overwritten
      "STOP” if file exists and should not be overwritten
  o Server sends file to client, line by line
  o Decision: How does the client know when the server has completed sending the file?

The client should accept the server’s hostname and optionally, the port number as a command-line argument. 
The server should accept an optional port number as a command-line argument.
